# Development Regulatory Notice

This development device contains RF/digital hardware and software intended for engineering development, engineering evaluation, or demonstration purposes only and is intended for use in a controlled environment. This device is not being placed on the market, leased or sold for use in a residential environment, or for use by the general public as an end user device.

This development device is not intended to meet the requirements of a commercially available consumer device including those requirements specified in the European Union directives applicable for Radio devices being placed on the market, FCC equipment authorization rules, or other regulations pertaining to consumer devices being placed on the market for use by the general public.

The device should be installed and operated with a minimum distance of 8 inches (20 cm) between radiating antennas and bystanders. Additional RF exposure information can be found on the FCC website at http://www.fcc.gov/encyclopedia/radio-frequency-safety.

FCC NOTICE: This kit is designed to allow:

1. Product developers to evaluate electronic components, circuitry, or software associated with the kit to determine whether to incorporate such items in a finished product and

2. Software developers to write software applications for use with the end product. This kit is not a finished product and when assembled, may not be resold or otherwise marketed unless all required FCC equipment authorizations are first obtained. Operation is subject to the condition that this product not cause harmful interference to licensed radio stations and that this product accept harmful interference. Unless the assembled kit is designed to operate under Part 15, Part 18, or Part 95 of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules in Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), the operator of the kit must operate under the authority of an FCC license holder or must secure an experimental authorization under Part 5 of the FCC's rules.

If the kit is modified through the addition of external RF components such as high gain antennas then the owner must ensure operation with existing rules. 