# Prebuilt Sample Applications

The **Qualcomm Intelligent Multimedia SDK (IMSDK)** includes a set of prebuilt sample applications designed to help developers quickly evaluate multimedia and AI capabilities on Qualcomm® hardware. These applications are built using **GStreamer pipelines** and **IMSDK plugins**, and serve as reference implementations for common use cases such as camera capture, video playback, object detection, pose estimation, and more.  
 
Prebuilt sample apps provide a fast and reliable way to:  
**Validate hardware functionality**: Confirm that camera, display, audio, and AI accelerators are working correctly on your development board.  
**Understand pipeline structure**: Learn how GStreamer pipelines are constructed using IMSDK plugins like `qtivtransform`, `qtimltflite`, and `qtivcomposer`.  
**Benchmark performance**: Measure throughput and latency for real-time multimedia and AI tasks using optimized pipelines.  
**Accelerate development**: Use working examples as a starting point for building custom applications. Each sample demonstrates best practices for zero-copy data flow, hardware offload, and plugin configuration.    

## Pre-requisites  
**On Target**  
   * **Ubuntu OS** should be flashed  
   * **Terminal access** with appropriate permissions    
   * Run **install_ppa_pkgs.sh script** to install necessary packages  

:::tip
Make sure your system meets all the prerequisites before launching the sample apps.
:::

## Getting started with prebuilt applications 
Before running any sample applications, you'll need to download the required models, labels, and media assets. The following steps will guide you through fetching these components and verifying their placement on your device.  

1: Download and run the artifact script  
This script will automatically fetch all required components for running the sample applications, including:  
    * Models  
    * Labels  
    * Media files  

**Script Details**
You can run the following commands on SSH terminal/SBC terminal.
```shell
cd /home/ubuntu 
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/quic/sample-apps-for-qualcomm-linux/refs/heads/main/download_artifacts.sh
sudo chmod +x download_artifacts.sh 
sudo ./download_artifacts.sh -v GA1.5-rel -c QCS6490
```
**Explanation**  
* Use the `-v` flag to define the version you want to work with (e.g., GA1.5-rel).
* Use the `-c` flag to define the chipset your device is using.(e.g., QCS6490).

2: Verify Model/Label/Media Files  
Before launching any sample applications, make sure the required files are in place.    

Check the following directories:    
    **Model files** → `/etc/models/`  
    **Label files** → `/etc/labels/`   
    **Media files** → `/etc/media/`  

:::note
 These files are essential for AI and multimedia apps to function correctly. If they’re missing, re-run the artifact download script.
:::

3: Sample Application    
**Input Source – Media File; Output Source - Waylandsink**  
**Model Precision - Quant model; Runtime - TFLite; Script used - JSON**  

For **Multimedia sample applications**, please make sure the **cameras** are connected (pre-requsities)  

| Sample App Name           |  Details   | AI Hub Model (Default)         |
|------------------------------|------------|--------------------------------|
| gst-ai-classification     |  [Image classification](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-ai-classification.html)  | Inception_v3                   
| gst-ai-pose-detection     |  [Pose detection](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-ai-pose-detection.html)  | hrnet_pose                
| gst-ai-segmentation       |  [Image segmentation](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-ai-segmentation.html)  | Deeplabv3_plus_mobilenet 
| gst-ai-monodepth          |  [Monodepth from video](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/mono-depth-from-video.html) | midas                   
| gst-ai-face-detection     |  [Face detection](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-ai-face-detection.html) | face_det_lite                
| gst-camera-single-stream-example     |  [Single camera streaming](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-camera-single-stream-example.html) | NA                
| gst-multi-camera-example    |  [Multi-camera streaming](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-multi-camera-stream-example.html) | NA         
| gst-activate-deactivate-streams-runtime-example     |  [Activate-deactivate streams at runtime](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/gst-activate-deactivate-streams-runtime.html) | NA                

Use the SSH/SBC terminal to launch your sample application.  
:::note
Note: In case if the terminal is in root, the we need to set the following environment. Otherwise for ubuntu user, it is not required. export `XDG_RUNTIME_DIR=/run/user/$(id -u ubuntu)`
:::

Run gst-ai-classification application by using following command. It allows you to identify the subject in an image. The use cases are implemented using the Qualcomm Neural Processing SDK, LiteRT, or Qualcomm AI Engine direct models.  
Example
```shell
gst-ai-classification
```
To display the available help options, run the following command in the SSH shell:  
```shell
gst-ai-classification -h
```

**To stop the use case, use CTRL + C**

## Reference Documentation  
* [**Run AI/ML sample applications**](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-50/ai-ml-sample-applications.html)
* [**Get started with the Qualcomm IM SDK**](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70020-51/install-sdk.html#panel-0-VWJ1bnR1)



